Juju: This note covers sibling blockers. For a practical example, please see children of `GuiExampleFrame`, such as
      `oPageOptions`.
      
Within the Gui system, cosmetics are instances that:
 1) Have the behavior `GUI_BEHAVIOR_BLOCK_SIBLINGS`
 2) Will prevent sibling instances (instances that share the same parent as the sibling blocker)
    that have a lower priority from being drawn or interacted with

The functionality of sibling blockers has niche uses and won't be commonly used. However, you'll
find sibling blockers helpful when needing to swap between pages of Gui instances whilst retaining
the state of each page. By creating containers that represent pages and setting each page to be a
sibling blocker, you can swap between pages without having to recreate pages simply by pushing the
desired page to the top of the priority stack by using `GuiSetPriorityTop()`.

When sibling blockers are used it is almost certainly as a container and as such are sibling
blockers are typically parents. Please see the "Parenting" note for more details. Cosmetics and
listeners are further likely to need scroll regions. Please see the "Scrolling" note for more
details.

Sibling blocker objects that you create should inherit from `GuiObject` (via intermediate objects
as you wish) and call `GuiSetBehavior(GUI_BEHAVIOR_BLOCK_SIBLINGS)` in the Create event of the
object, or immediately after creating the instance. Modal objects will typically use three events:
 1) Create event
 2) User Event 0 - Gui update event `GUI_USER_EVENT_STEP`
 3) User Event 1 - Gui draw event `GUI_USER_EVENT_DRAW`
The Create event should be used to initialize variables that are relevant to the cosmetic. This
might include variables that describe a sprite to draw, the color of the instance, or the alpha
transparency. The Create event functions as any other Create event in any other GameMaker instance.

User Event 0 is used by the Gui system to update the state of the instance. User Event 0, if it
needs to be executed, will be executed by `GuiStep()`. Please see `oMain` for more information on
this function. As previously mentioned, User Event 0 may not always be executed due to the internal
logic of the Gui system. For example, if the parent instance for the sibling blocker is set to
invisible (`visible = false;`) then it and all child instances will be skipped by `GuiStep()` and
won't have their User Event 0 executed. For sibling blockers, User Event 0 will usually be used for
checking for button input from `GuiInputButton()`. You will typically make use of User Event 0 for
instances that can be dismissed by the player when they press a "back" button or an "escape"
button.

User Event 1 is executed similarly to User Event 0, but this time it is executed by `GuiDraw()`.
Again, please see `oMain` for more information on this function. You should do all drawing for a
cosmetic or listener in User Event 1. You may use any GameMaker drawing techniques - including
matrices, shaders, and surfaces - without limitation. However, the Gui system's scroll region
feature uses the stencil buffer and, as such, you may not use custom stencil buffer code.